dylan/utility_library/dylan_review/README.md, before:

# Claude Code Review Runner

A simple utility that runs code reviews using Claude Code on git branches and commits.

## Overview

The dylan_review tool helps developers get AI-powered code reviews by:

1. Analyzing git diffs between branches or commits
2. Identifying issues, bugs, and potential improvements
3. Providing specific feedback with file and line references
4. Generating structured review reports in markdown or JSON format

**Required Claude Code Tools**: Read, Glob, Grep, LS, Bash, Write (configurable via --allowed-tools)

## Requirements

- Python 3.12+
- Claude Code CLI installed (`npm i -g @anthropic-ai/claude-code`)
- Git repository
- Claude API key (or Claude Code authentication)

## Installation

Clone this repository

### Using uv (recommended)

```bash
# Create and activate a virtual environment
uv venv
source .venv/bin/activate  # On Unix/macOS
# .venv\Scripts\activate   # On Windows

# Install the package in development mode
uv pip install -e .

# Install with development dependencies
uv pip install -e ".[dev]"

# Install as a UV tool to use on any directory
uv tool install -e /path/to/repo/root

# Run with the main CLI
dylan review
```

### Using pip

```bash
# Create and activate a virtual environment
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate  # On Unix/macOS
# .venv\Scripts\activate   # On Windows

# Install the package in development mode
pip install -e .
```

## Usage

The review tool can be run in several ways:

### Using the integrated CLI

```bash
# Using the main CLI
dylan review feature-branch

# With options
dylan review feature-branch --format json --tools Read,Bash,Grep
```

### From Python code

```python
from dylan.utility_library.dylan_review import run_claude_review, generate_review_prompt

# Generate and run a review
prompt = generate_review_prompt(branch="feature-branch")
run_claude_review(prompt)

# Use JSON output format
prompt = generate_review_prompt(branch="feature-branch", output_format="json")
run_claude_review(prompt, output_format="json")
```

## Options

- `branch`: Optional branch name to review (defaults to latest changes)
- `--tools`: Comma-separated list of tools (default: Read,Glob,Grep,LS,Bash,Write)
- `--format`: Output format - text, json, or stream-json (default: text)

## Output Formats

### Markdown (default)

Creates a `tmp/review_[branch_name]_[timestamp].md` file (or `tmp/review_report.md` if no name collision) with:

- Report metadata (branch, commits, file changes)
- Issues ranked by severity
- Specific file/line references
- Suggested fixes

### JSON

Creates a `tmp/review_[branch_name]_[timestamp].json` file (or `tmp/review_report.json` if no name collision) with structured data:

- Report metadata
- Issue metadata
- Detailed issue list with severity, type, and fixes
- Summary of critical issues

## Customization

The review prompts can be customized by modifying the `generate_review_prompt()` function in `dylan_review_runner.py`.

Available severity levels:

- Critical
- High
- Medium
- Low

Issue types:

- Bug
- Security
- Performance
- Style
- Documentation
- Testing

## Troubleshooting

1. **Claude Code CLI not found**: Install with `npm i -g @anthropic-ai/claude-code`
2. **Permission denied**: Make sure Claude Code has write permission for saving reports
3. **No git repository found**: Run the tool inside a git repository
4. **JSON escape issues**: Use the `--pretty-print` option to fix common escape problems
5. **Branch not found**: Ensure the branch name is spelled correctly

## Architecture

The cc_review tool is split into modular components:

- `cc_review_runner.py`: Core review functionality
- `cc_review_cli.py`: Typer-based CLI interface
- `cc_review_utils.py`: Utility functions (pretty-printing)
- `__init__.py`: Module exports

## License

MIT

Commit message:

docs: update CLI and utility documentation with branching strategy details
The changes add comprehensive documentation for the new branching strategy support, changelog integration, and report management features across the dylan CLI and its utility commands (review, pr, release).

dylan/utility_library/dylan_review/README.md, after:

# Claude Code Review Runner

A simple utility that runs code reviews using Claude Code on git branches and commits.

## Overview

The dylan_review tool helps developers get AI-powered code reviews by:

1. Detecting the appropriate base branch to compare against
2. Analyzing git diffs between branches or commits
3. Identifying issues, bugs, and potential improvements
4. Providing specific feedback with file and line references
5. Generating branch-aware review reports in markdown or JSON format

**Required Claude Code Tools**: Read, Glob, Grep, LS, Bash, Write (configurable via --allowed-tools)

## Requirements

- Python 3.12+
- Claude Code CLI installed (`npm i -g @anthropic-ai/claude-code`)
- Git repository
- Claude API key (or Claude Code authentication)

## Installation

Clone this repository

### Using uv (recommended)

```bash
# Create and activate a virtual environment
uv venv
source .venv/bin/activate  # On Unix/macOS
# .venv\Scripts\activate   # On Windows

# Install the package in development mode
uv pip install -e .

# Install with development dependencies
uv pip install -e ".[dev]"

# Install as a UV tool to use on any directory
uv tool install -e /path/to/repo/root

# Run with the main CLI
dylan review
```

### Using pip

```bash
# Create and activate a virtual environment
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate  # On Unix/macOS
# .venv\Scripts\activate   # On Windows

# Install the package in development mode
pip install -e .
```

## Usage

The review tool can be run in several ways:

### Using the integrated CLI

```bash
# Using the main CLI
dylan review feature-branch

# With options
dylan review feature-branch --format json --tools Read,Bash,Grep
```

### From Python code

```python
from dylan.utility_library.dylan_review import run_claude_review, generate_review_prompt

# Generate and run a review
prompt = generate_review_prompt(branch="feature-branch")
run_claude_review(prompt)

# Use JSON output format
prompt = generate_review_prompt(branch="feature-branch", output_format="json")
run_claude_review(prompt, output_format="json")
```

## Options

- `branch`: Optional branch name to review (defaults to latest changes)
- `--tools`: Comma-separated list of tools (default: Read,Glob,Grep,LS,Bash,Write)
- `--format`: Output format - text, json, or stream-json (default: text)

## Output Formats

### Markdown (default)

Creates a `tmp/review_report_<branch>_<timestamp>.md` file with:

- Report metadata (branch, base branch, commits, file changes)
- Issues ranked by severity
- Specific file/line references
- Suggested fixes
- Branch name is sanitized (slashes replaced with dashes)

### JSON

Creates a `tmp/review_report_<branch>_<timestamp>.json` file with structured data:

- Report metadata
- Issue metadata
- Detailed issue list with severity, type, and fixes
- Summary of critical issues
- Branch name is sanitized (slashes replaced with dashes)

## Customization

The review prompts can be customized by modifying the `generate_review_prompt()` function in `dylan_review_runner.py`.

Available severity levels:

- Critical
- High
- Medium
- Low

Issue types:

- Bug
- Security
- Performance
- Style
- Documentation
- Testing

## Troubleshooting

1. **Claude Code CLI not found**: Install with `npm i -g @anthropic-ai/claude-code`
2. **Permission denied**: Make sure Claude Code has write permission for saving reports
3. **No git repository found**: Run the tool inside a git repository
4. **JSON escape issues**: Use the `--pretty-print` option to fix common escape problems
5. **Branch not found**: Ensure the branch name is spelled correctly

## Branch Strategy Detection

The review tool automatically detects the appropriate base branch to compare against:

1. Checks for `.branchingstrategy` file with configured `release_branch`
2. Falls back to common development branches (develop, development, dev) 
3. Defaults to main/master if no development branch is found

This ensures reviews compare feature branches against the correct integration branch.

## Architecture

The dylan_review tool is split into modular components:

- `dylan_review_runner.py`: Core review functionality with branch detection
- `dylan_review_cli.py`: Typer-based CLI interface  
- `__init__.py`: Module exports

## License

MIT
