dylan/utility_library/dylan_pr/README.md, before:

# Dylan PR Creator

A minimal Claude Code utility for autonomous pull request creation.

## Overview

The `dylan pr` command gives Claude Code complete autonomy to analyze commits and create pull requests. It follows the same minimal philosophy as other dylan utilities.

The command saves its report to the `tmp/` directory to avoid cluttering the project root.

## Usage

```bash
# Create PR from current branch to main
dylan pr

# Create PR from specific branch to main
dylan pr feature-branch

# Create PR with custom target branch
dylan pr feature-branch --target develop

# Use JSON output format
dylan pr --format json

# Specify custom tools
dylan pr --tools "Bash,Read,Write"
```

## Features

- **Automatic branch detection**: Uses current branch if none specified
- **Rich PR descriptions**: Claude generates comprehensive PR content
- **GitHub CLI integration**: Uses `gh` command for PR creation
- **Minimal validation**: Trusts Claude to handle edge cases
- **Multiple output formats**: Supports text and JSON output

## How It Works

1. Claude analyzes the branch context and commits
2. Determines if a PR is needed
3. Generates PR title from branch name or commits
4. Creates detailed description with:
   - Summary of changes
   - List of commits
   - Files modified
   - Testing notes
5. Uses GitHub CLI to create the PR
6. Reports results with PR URL
7. Saves report to `tmp/pr_report.md` (or `tmp/pr_report_[timestamp].md` if file exists)

## Requirements

- GitHub CLI (`gh`) installed and authenticated
- Git repository with GitHub remote
- Claude Code CLI installed

## Philosophy

This tool exemplifies the dylan philosophy:
- Give Claude complete autonomy
- Minimal wrapper code (~100 lines)
- Trust Claude's decision making
- No complex validation logic

## Example Output

```
Claude process completed successfully
✅ Created PR #123: Add new feature
URL: https://github.com/org/repo/pull/123

Summary:
- Analyzed 5 commits in feature/new-widget branch
- Generated PR title from branch name
- Created comprehensive description
- Successfully opened PR against main branch
```

Commit message:

docs: update CLI and utility documentation with branching strategy details
The changes add comprehensive documentation for the new branching strategy support, changelog integration, and report management features across the dylan CLI and its utility commands (review, pr, release).

dylan/utility_library/dylan_pr/README.md, after:

# Dylan PR Creator

A minimal Claude Code utility for autonomous pull request creation.

## Overview

The `dylan pr` command gives Claude Code complete autonomy to analyze commits and create pull requests. It follows the same minimal philosophy as other dylan utilities.

The command saves its report to the `tmp/` directory with branch-aware naming for better tracking across multiple PRs.

## Usage

```bash
# Create PR from current branch to develop (default)
dylan pr

# Create PR from specific branch to develop
dylan pr feature-branch

# Create PR with custom target branch
dylan pr feature-branch --target main

# Create PR with changelog section
dylan pr --changelog

# Use JSON output format
dylan pr --format json

# Specify custom tools
dylan pr --tools "Bash,Read,Write"
```

## Features

- **Automatic branch detection**: Uses current branch if none specified
- **Rich PR descriptions**: Claude generates comprehensive PR content
- **Changelog support**: Add formatted changelog section to PR description with `--changelog`
- **Branch-aware reports**: Reports include branch name for better organization
- **Incremental updates**: Appends to existing PR reports for the same branch
- **GitHub CLI integration**: Uses `gh` command for PR creation
- **Minimal validation**: Trusts Claude to handle edge cases
- **Multiple output formats**: Supports text and JSON output

## How It Works

1. Claude analyzes the branch context and commits
2. Determines if a PR is needed
3. Generates PR title from branch name or commits
4. Creates detailed description with:
   - Summary of changes
   - List of commits
   - Files modified
   - Changelog section (if `--changelog` flag is used)
   - Testing notes
5. Uses GitHub CLI to create the PR
6. Reports results with PR URL
7. Saves report to `tmp/pr_report_<branch>_<timestamp>.md`
   - Branch name is sanitized (slashes replaced with dashes)
   - Appends to existing report if one exists for the branch

## Requirements

- GitHub CLI (`gh`) installed and authenticated
- Git repository with GitHub remote
- Claude Code CLI installed

## Philosophy

This tool exemplifies the dylan philosophy:
- Give Claude complete autonomy
- Minimal wrapper code (~100 lines)
- Trust Claude's decision making
- No complex validation logic

## Example Output

```
Claude process completed successfully
✅ Created PR #123: Add new feature
URL: https://github.com/org/repo/pull/123

Summary:
- Analyzed 5 commits in feature/new-widget branch
- Generated PR title from branch name
- Created comprehensive description
- Successfully opened PR against main branch
```
